## ASP.NET Core web API documentation with Swagger / OpenAPI
Swagger (OpenAPI) is a language-agnostic specification for describing REST APIs. It allows both computers and humans to understand the capabilities of a REST API without direct access to the source code. Its main goals are to:

- Minimize the amount of work needed to connect decoupled services.
- Reduce the amount of time needed to accurately document a service.
 

## Creating Unit Tests for ASP.NET MVC Applications (C#)
The goal of this tutorial is to demonstrate how you can write unit tests for the controllers in your ASP.NET MVC applications. We discuss how to build three different types of unit tests. You learn how to test the view returned by a controller action, how to test the View Data returned by a controller action, and how to test whether or not one controller action redirects you to a second controller action.

 

## Testing the View returned by a Controller
Imagine that we want to test whether or not the ProductController returns the right view. We want to make sure that when the ProductController.Details() action is invoked, the Details view is returned. The test class in Listing 2 contains a unit test for testing the view returned by the ProductController.Details() action.

 

## Testing the View Data returned by a Controller
An MVC controller passes data to a view by using something called View Data. For example, imagine that you want to display the details for a particular product when you invoke the ProductController Details() action. In that case, you can create an instance of a Product class (defined in your model) and pass the instance to the Details view by taking advantage of View Data.

 

### Summary
- In this tutorial, you learned how to build unit tests for MVC controller actions. First, you learned how to verify whether the right view is returned by a controller action. You learned how to use the ViewResult.ViewName property to verify the name of a view.

- Next, we examined how you can test the contents of View Data. You learned how to check whether the right product was returned in View Data after calling a controller action.

- Finally, we discussed how you can test whether different types of action results are returned from a controller action. You learned how to test whether a controller returns a ViewResult or a RedirectToRouteResult.

 

### Unit test controller logic in ASP.NET Core
#### Unit tests of controller logic
Unit tests (Links to an external site.) involve testing a part of an app in isolation from its infrastructure and dependencies. When unit testing controller logic, only the contents of a single action are tested, not the behavior of its dependencies or of the framework itself.

Set up unit tests of controller actions to focus on the controller's behavior. A controller unit test avoids scenarios such as filters (Links to an external site.), routing (Links to an external site.), and model binding (Links to an external site.). Tests that cover the interactions among components that collectively respond to a request are handled by integration tests. For more information on integration tests, see Integration tests in ASP.NET Core (Links to an external site.).

If you're writing custom filters and routes, unit test them in isolation, not as part of tests on a particular controller action.

To demonstrate controller unit tests, review the following controller in the sample app. The Home controller displays a list of brainstorming sessions and allows the creation of new brainstorming sessions with a POST request:
```C#
public class HomeController : Controller
{
    private readonly IBrainstormSessionRepository _sessionRepository;

    public HomeController(IBrainstormSessionRepository sessionRepository)
    {
        _sessionRepository = sessionRepository;
    }

    public async Task<IActionResult> Index()
    {
        var sessionList = await _sessionRepository.ListAsync();

        var model = sessionList.Select(session => new StormSessionViewModel()
        {
            Id = session.Id,
            DateCreated = session.DateCreated,
            Name = session.Name,
            IdeaCount = session.Ideas.Count
        });

        return View(model);
    }

    public class NewSessionModel
    {
        [Required]
        public string SessionName { get; set; }
    }

    [HttpPost]
    public async Task<IActionResult> Index(NewSessionModel model)
    {
        if (!ModelState.IsValid)
        {
            return BadRequest(ModelState);
        }
        else
        {
            await _sessionRepository.AddAsync(new BrainstormSession()
            {
                DateCreated = DateTimeOffset.Now,
                Name = model.SessionName
            });
        }

        return RedirectToAction(actionName: nameof(Index));
    }
}
```